# VP141 Physics Lab I

## Information

Instructor: Mateusz Krzyzosiak

Semester: 2018 Summer

## Prerequisite

You need to have the quality of tenacity.

You also need to have a drawing software. There will be a lot of available software, you only need to select one:

- **Origin**: This is the easiest one, but it is very large in size. (Recommended)
- **Excel**: It is easy to draw a figure, but it is not easy to draw a beautiful figure.
- **Python** or **R** or **Matlab** or **Mathematica**: You need to know some basic programming skills to plot figures.

## Description

This is the second lab you will enroll in JI. You are required to implement five experiments and writing reports for each experiment, just like what you have done in VC211. However, the process is a little different.

The course will start from the fifth week. Each student will be formed into groups to attend different experiments, that means, some students conduct lab 1 first and some students conduct lab 2, lab 3, lab 4, lab 5 first. There is no pre-lab assignment in VP141, but you still need to read the lab manual thoroughly, since there will be a 15-points quiz and 2-point question before the lab. You also need to print the datasheet, and bring them to the lab.

You can find your lab arrangement in the lab arrangement file in about the fourth week, and remember your time slot, lab number and lab room. Morning section is from 8:00 to 10:45; Noon section is from 11:30 to 14:15; Afternoon section is from 16:00 to 18:45. You need to arrive the lab room on time, since the quiz will be held as soon as the lab starts.

All of the quiz questions is selected from the Preview Questions on the lab manual, so you at least need to do all of the Preview Questions on the lab manual to conquer the quiz. :exclamation:**Be sure that you download the manual from your own section. Because of different versions, the Preview Questions may be different.** The lab manual supplied in this repository is only for reference.

After the quiz, TA will hold the introduction part. He will teach the theoretical background using the white board. Then, their will be some in-lab questions. Only answering in-lab questions can get full mark on in-lab section. The total points for in-lab questions are 2 points, and you will automatically get 33 points if you do not violate the lab rules or break some devices. The in-lab question is related to the manual, and some are just Preview Questions.

After this section, TA will perform a sample experiment. If you cannot remember, take a video. 

You need to write your report after finishing the lab. You need to include several sections:

- Title page: Display the information about the lab report.
- Content: This will be automatically generated by LaTeX.
- Introduction: The same content as the manual, showing some theoretical background of the lab, but you should paraphrase it instead of directly copying the content from the manual.
- Apparatus: The some content as the manual, showing the apparatus will be used in this lab, but you should paraphrase it instead of directly copying the content from the manual. Moreover, the precision of each measurement instrument is recommended to show in this section.
- Procedure: The some content as the manual, showing the procedures of the experiment, but you should paraphrase it instead of directly copying the content from the manual.
- Result: Displaying the result you have done in the lab. The requirement is usually written on the board in the lab. For some labs. you need to plot linear fits. Be remember to add error bars. More information can be seen in the **Uncertainty** folder.
- Conclusion: Writing what you can conclude from the result in this lab.
- Discussion: Writing the shortages and the potential improvements for the whole lab.
- Uncertainty: Calculate the uncertainty of each results. There will be a simple tutorial of how to calculate uncertainty in 
- Reference: At least you should write the manual. Use IEEE style.
- Datasheet: When uploading the paper version report, datasheet should be attached, or the report will not be accepted.

For Lab 1, the report is performed during the lab with its template, so you do not need to write the report for Lab 1 after the lab. For Lab 2, 4, 5, a 15-page lab report is appropriate. For Lab 3, a 30-page lab-report is appropriate.

At last, you need to both hand in the electronic version on canvas, and paper version to LBL. Don’t forget your datasheet.

Since using $\LaTeX$ to write your report is recommended, their will be a simple tutorial teaching you how to use LaTeX in **latex** folder. Nonetheless, Microsoft Word is still acceptable.

## Tips

- When taking VP141, for the in-lab questions, the competition is extremely fierce. When hearing sentences like “Here is a two-point question…”, “Now anther bonus question…”, Raise your hand immediately if you want to get the opportunity.
- When you don’t know what to do, feel free to ask TA how to perform the next procedure.
- The correctness, accuracy and precision of the lab also affects the lab to some extents, so be serious when conducting the experiments.
- The most important things about $\LaTeX$ is its **MathJax**, that is, how to show math formula in codes. This technique is also available in Markdown. Moreover, their is a tool called **Mathpix Snip**, which can transform figures (even hand-written) with latex math formula into latex codes, but at most 50 figures per month can be translated.
- Again, a sample report is given by the instructor, and again, it is not excellent enough.
- LaTeX is a useful tool, only because some instructors will force you to use it.
