# VG100 Intro to Engineering

## Information

Instructor: Zhang Qiang

Semester: 2019 Summer

## Prerequisite

You don’t need to prepare anything for this course.

## Description

This course is a guidance course for ME. There will be multiple sections to be selected in the summer semester. In each section, you will be arranged in a group with 4-5members, and will be required to build up two tricky projects. The first project is assigned by the instructor, and the second project is generated by groups (with the help of the instructor).

In Shane’s section, Project I is to build a wooden bridge. In Shen’s section, Project I is to build a car made by paper. In Zhang’s section, Project I is to build a fan device using heat energy.

Compared with other courses in the first year, VG100 is the most difficult one, so please be prepared with the hard time.

## Tips

- If you take Shane’s or Shen’s section, the project will cover electronic control using Arduino. If you take Zhang’s section, the project will cover engineering drawing using SolidWorks (or other CAD softwares).
- There will be no final exam because of the existence of the EXPO. So the midterm exam is the only exam you will be involved. Be careful that there will be many questions for TC (Technical Communication) parts.
- VP141, another course with lots of workload, will start from the fifth week, very close to the due date of the first project. You need to arrange your time well.
- Unfortunately, you will not learn anything useful in VG100.
